Subtitles corrected resynced
♪♪by AsifAkheirESL@teachers.org
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
Why the barrier? Is this new?
Toll privileges are issued
by the Princess...
2.1
...or the young Baron.
Is the old one dead?
Pity.
These your horses?
You need a permit.
A permit? I've crossed
20 times with no permit.
No one passes without a permit.
Get a permit, or go back.
I'm taking them to the fair.
30... and you can have them.
It's already low.
I paid 20 pounds 6 months ago.
He mustn't pass with no permit.
Seriously?... for a permit?
He can leave 2 black horses
(for collateral)
He'll get them back
when he gets a permit.
My horses? That's harsh!
I have to sell them.
Alright...
He can leave the black ones.
Cesar, watch my horses
till I get back.
19.1
[ Michael Kohlhaas ]
19.2
[ Based on a story by
Heinrich von Kleist ]
Where are the horses?
The two black ones.
Kohlhaas.
Governor.
Magnificent!
He's superb.
He's truly exceptional.
I don't know how you do it.
Any other horse trader
would have kept him, but you...
You want to bankrupt (murder) me?
Is that it?
What are you up to?
Who told you to take them out?
Thief.
Release the dogs.
Isn't that the Bible?
You don't read out loud?
It's the Bible. But not in Latin.
Would you like to read?
A - tra-vers - le - verre - sombre
Through a glass darkly
Through a glass, darkly.
It's an image.
A way of seeing the world.
Darkly.
Something you see,
but don't recognise.
An enemy.
Or a friend.
Or oneself.
I have something for you.
I don't dare look.
You know what I thought,
the first time I saw you?
If I could touch that man...
... just once.
He's so handsome...
...I'd drink his tenderness
even from a pig's trough.
You're blushing.
Are you going to make love?
Mom says I shouldn't pretend
to sleep when I hear you.
I heard you.
Who did this?
Where's my groom?
He left.
We looked after them ourselves.
Made them work to pay for
their keep.
What happened to him?
He ran off with the horses,
that's what!
We caught the horses,
but he got away.
I don't believe you.
You don't?... Believe what you like.
I seek my horses, my lord.
Two black saddle horses...
...left with you as a guarantee.
They're in the stable.
He just saw them.
He's making a big fuss because
they're dirty and we made them work.
Those are not my horses.
I left you two magnificent animals
well-fed and in good health.
I want my horses as they were.
My lord! The Princess no longer
grants toll privileges.
You mocked me.
Now I want my horses.
I will have justice, my lord.
Why, exactly, are you giving me
this money?
Show him.
I want you to lodge a complaint
before the tribunal.
Demand redress for damages
suffered by Cesar and myself.
Toll rights are abolished.
The Chancellery confirmed it.
Cesar has always been in my service.
They set the dogs on him.
I'll leave you to estimate
the value of the damages.
And say that I want my horses
as they were.
Well-fed and in perfect health.
It's a colt. (male)
From your mare.
Watch.
He's going to stand.
I've come from the tribunal.
Your claim was rejected.
It's the third time.
There won't be another.
The Baron who wronged you...
...is related to a gentleman
of the Court.
I recommend
you take those horses back.
Why don't you dismount?
I can't stay.
I must be off again.
Won't you eat something?
Please...
Don't insist.
Do we end it here?
Kohlhaas...
Is your business so fragile
that you can't lose 2 horses?
Why don't you answer?
Go get your horses.
WHICH horses?
Those half dead animals...
...that I left 3 months ago?
I'd rather you left me out of this.
Mom, come see.
We consider the horse dealer,
118.1
Michael Kohlhaas,
to be a litigious person,
Lord DeJacques,
with whom he left his horses,
119.1
is not keeping them from him.
Said dealer may
retrieve them or indicate
to the Lord where to deliver them.
We dismiss Michael Kohlhaas'
122.1
foolhardy, vexatious litigation
and instruct him not to importune
123.1
the Chancellery with such suits,
upon pain of encarceration.
Selling your estate?
If you buy now, I won't haggle.
How much will you give me
for all of it?
All of what?
All of it.
The land. The house.
Is it true, what Cesar says?
That you want to bring your
grievance to the Princess?
That you're selling the house?
Are you getting rid of us?
Judith.
God gave me a wife...
children...
whom I love more than anything.
Do you want me to regret that
for the first time in my life?
What should I do?
Offer an apology to the Baron?
Give me the case.
Let me go.
Judith...
The Princess is surrounded by people.
How do you plan to get through?
With a sword?
The people around a Princess
is called a Court.
If you really want
your grievance to succeed...
...my love...
...let me go.
Walk back home with the mare.
I can go faster without you.
Lord...
Lord of lords...
who knows the thoughts of men
Creator of thunder, of lightning, of fog
of the wind, the snow, and the rain
You who makes transient beings,
you sustain them and destroy them
Receive the soul of Judith.
Sprinkle her with the dew of Thy Grace.
Beneath the shade of Thy wings.
Lord, I feel much sorrow for Judith.
Lord...
Let her dwell with You.
Amen.
I could stay in the house...
Lisbeth.
When it's all over,
I'll come for you.
I promise.
Allez, allez!
The Bible says to forgive our enemies.
I pray that God
will never forgive us...
...as we're going to
'forgive' our young lord.
Get dressed.
Put it down.
Take this.
The Baron's on foot.
He can't be far.
They want to follow us.
What do you say?
[OCCITAN]
I've come, Senor Kohlhaas
to offer my respects.
One man and his horse
against the whole world.
That's very strong!
I too...
I too broke the law.
189.1
Hey, shush, shh!
Listen, listen! I too broke the law.
Occasionally, like all men.
I mean, if there was a just God...
I don't know what would happen.
If I weigh in the balance...
what I did...
against...
what was done to me...
Look, look!
We've reached Senor Kohlhaas.
It's for you.
You need to wait a bit,
but he'll fatten up.
How much did you pay?[FREN]
No, nothing. It's a gift.[OC]
Kohlhaas doesn't accept gifts.[FR]
We'll pay you.
Who here, can fight?
Who's been to war before?
You know what the Lords do
to peasants who revolt?
They cut off your fingers.
They gouge out your eyes.
They torture you slowly.
It lasts a day.
The death of a peasant is a joke.
I was a soldier.
I know what I'm talking about.
You, the big one, come with me.
The rest, go home.
Eh, I...[OC]
I... I can fight.
Show me.[FR]
I want to learn.
I have to see Sir Kohlhaas.[OC]
It's important.
You brought the pig.
I haven't forgotten.[FR]
The Baron...
I know where he is.[OC]
When I was a child,
a revolt broke out
in a neighbouring province
a fair distance away.
And one day, a beggar
who had crossed said province
brought into my father's house
a rebel's manifesto.
It was a feast day.
Guests in every room.
The priest read the first article
and everyone starts to laugh.
My father tears up the manifesto
and chases off the beggar,
with a stick.
Why?
The peasants complained,
in those 12 articles,
that they counted less than
our dogs.
I was 12 years old.
The great peasant rebellion
happened a month later.
My father lost his life.
Three of our family's manors
were burned and demolished.
Tell the governor,
it's the best I could find.
Hurry, and speak to no one.
What are you waiting for?
Hurry up.
Judith's grave is in bloom.
Thank you.
The neighbour doesn't want
the house anymore.
He's keeping it for you.
You can buy back the land
if you want.
You know, I can't stay with you.
I know.
What do you want me to do?
Go home.
What'll you do about her?
She's my daughter.
Any news from home?
No one judges you.
Not one word against you.
And you?
How do you judge me?
The Baron just left the Abbey.
Are you at war because of mom?
No.
Because of the horses?
Cesar!
Two squads.
Eighteen men.
'My' men.
We do not take.
We buy.
We pay...
...the rightful owner.
And we accept no gifts.
People give because they're afraid.
War does not give us the right...
...to pillage...
...to steal.
That's what the Lords do.
Not us.
Come forward.
Your house was pillaged.
Show me who did it.
Do you want to say anything?
Is that your idea of justice?
Hanging your own men.
Is that why you burn and massacre?
Looks like you're preparing
to ravage an whole town.
All these people
you're dragging into war,...
do they know what awaits them?
What did you tell them?
That Kohlhaas is the victim
of a great injustice?
You're a merchant.
You're business is prosperous.
For you, life is sweet.
What effort did you make
to obtain justice?
I see that your heart is rancorous.
That you're dragging all these people...
...into a war that doesn't concern them.
I see that the sword that you wield
is not the sword of justice.
That you're not a soldier of God.
God has been largely forgotten...
...in this whole enterprise.
Kohlhaas...
What awaits you on earth
is the gallows.
All of you, know very well
what awaits you.
It's an honour, for me,
to make your acquaintance.
You know me?
I've read your Bible...
and I read it to my children.
If everyone did as you do...
there'd be neither order,
nor justice.
What would you yourself do...
...if, among your own troops
everyone wanted to be independent,
to make his own justice...
...and avenge himself?
You'd say it's up to
superiors to judge.
That no one may be the judge
of his own cause.
God would help you...
if you knew how to suffer
as He asks you to.
If you learned to endure
and to suffer injustice.
Don't you know, yet,
that it's unfitting...
for a Christian to fight with
sword and arquebus...
...but with the cross
and with patience?
That his triumph is neither
domination nor power...
...but submission and humility?
I spent my life convincing
the Church and the Princes...
..that they had no reason
to fear us.
All we asked was to be able to
live and prosper alongside them.
Your rebellion...
...has set back our cause.
The woman...
that I loved
who bore my children
went to the palace of the Princess
to beg
that I be given the justice
rightfully mine.
Lay down your arms.
If the Baron looks after my horses —
In the name of your faith,
and of your children!
— with his own hands.
Of all children raised by
our principles!
If he returns my horses
in good health
I'll lay down my arms.
And if not?
You say you grieve
the loss of your wife.
That you are inconsolable.
Don't you know the means
of defeating death?
Every living species has them...
...from ant, to man.
You...
You have the simplest:
"Thou shalt not kill".
Death is a choice.
Whoever doesn't kill, doesn't die.
What you must consider today
is not your strength, which is great.
Nor the fault of your adversary,
which is undeniable.
I only ask you to see whether...
...what you're about to do
agrees with justice
and with your conscience.
It's all well and good...
to fire words, like arrows,
at these wretches.
Doesn't it occur to you
to think of your own end?
Of the child you'll leave behind?
Of the thoughts that will
no longer inhabit you?
Don't forget...
you die alone.
You had this all along.
The Princess is negotiating.
Not me.
I ask nothing more
than what is written.
I'd rather you accepted
the spirit of the Scriptures
and not the Princess' arguments.
Will you hear my confession?
Go down on your knees.
Are you ready to forgive your enemy,
to retrieve your horses,
to bring them home
and care for them?
I'm ready to forgive those
who wronged me, unknowingly.
But...
The Baron...
Let me demand that he restore
my horses with his own hands.
Pastor
You deny me peace?
With God, yes.
With the Princess,
it's in your own hands.
We, Princess of Angoulême,
Queen of Navarre, sister of the King
bestow upon Michael Kohlhaas a pass
for a new inquiry into his case
on condition that he lay down his arms.
Should the tribunal reject his claim,
Kohlhaas will submit to the penalty
for taking justice into his own hands.
If on the other hand, the
tribunal finds him in the right
he and his troops shall be pardoned
and be granted amnesty for the crimes
of which he is guilty in the land.
I saw injustice.
That's why I took up arms.
They can have my arms.
There'll be no more fighting.
Everybody go home.
No one will die today.
What about those already dead?
Cesar?
Amnesty!
We surrender our arms!
Surrender arms!
Everyone!
Have you turned in your weapons?
I did.
Do you have children?
No.
A wife?
You've kept nothing?
You're certain?
I have nothing left.
That's good.
I don't know where to go.
Do you know where Jeremie is?
Do you know where he's going?
Michael Kohlhaas?
Majesty.
Do you know who I am?
My father called you "Majesty".
Your mother was harmed in my palace.
Would you believe me,
if I said I was sorry?
Do you think it's my fault?
The town you were about to destroy
before you surrendered your arms...
I was there.
I had barely as many men as you.
You could have taken a lot more.
Why did you surrender your arms?
I don't want a lot more, Majesty.
Only what is my due.
Are you a fanatic?
I have principles.
A relative of the Baron used his
position to make your claim disappear.
Did you know?
Yes.
You are like me.
You live as much by the love
as by the fear you inspire.
If you inspire only fear,
everyone despises you.
Only love...
is sign of weakness.
I suspect you're alone...
disarmed...
you have a child.
I'd like you to accept a guard.
Your Majesty, I don't —
A few men, for your safety.
Until the trial.
The Baron may have found your horses.
In a bad state, but alive.
Go and identify them.
The court will have them restored
to you in their original state.
You'll have what you wanted.
You prepared four?
There will be four.
Two mares... two foals.
Is that why you got out the harness?
Are we going to the fair?
We're waiting for more men.
They'll be coming with us.
You're afraid for me.
I don't know. Those are the orders.
You know your orders.
I do as I please.
One of your men did not
surrender his weapons.
Two nobles were killed,
their property stolen
and distributed to the peasants.
I don't have any men.
There's an inquest.
The Princess gave me her word.
The Princess considers the amnesty broken.
Does that make me a prisoner?
Get down.
Lisbeth.
Let's go.
Where is the house?
We're going in exactly
in the opposite direction.
Lisbeth!
Eat.
I'll have to live with my aunt.
You can't live alone, Lisbeth.
I don't even know her.
I know her.
How about the house?
What ABOUT the house?
What if I go live there?
Lisbeth
that's not possible.
Apples...
...from your home.
The neighbour agreed.
I spoke with him.
He wrote you a letter with the details.
Here, at any given moment,
people start praying.
The bell rings, and they kneel.
All at the same time.
I had forgotten.
Only the Jews and us remain standing.
What's coming...
will be hard.
I have difficulty finding...
I don't know...
the words.
The Princess intervened.
[GERMAN]
I won't be tortured.
or flayed,
or burned.
Thank God.
Do you know anything else?
Yes.
Do you want to tell me?
No.
The worst is the certainty.[FREN]
I count.
Every day, I'm getting closer to Judith.
And further from Lisbeth.
It's not death.
Death, I'm used to.
I believe.
But the absolute certitude of
the day, the hour, the manner...
is the most difficult.
Kohlhaas...
In the name of Marguerite,
Princess of Angoulême
Queen of Navarre
sister of the King,
today I dispense the justice
which you called upon yourself.
We return what was
taken from you, by force.
Your horses.
Compensation money
for your manservant.
Cesar had no family.
Give this to someone who needs it.
Reparation money for you.
Two years in prison
for what he did to you.
You have what you wanted.
The black horses are for you.
Lisbeth...
I know you're angry.
I'm not asking you to forgive me.
I was fortunate to have you.
You're very brave.
You're hurting my fingers.
I want to go.
Now.
Go with her.
Are we waiting for something?
No.
Michael Kohlhaas...
your rights having been restored
in the preceding fashion;
for your part in violating civil
peace, may God prepare you, now
to restore the right
of His Majesty the King
whose legal representative
is here present.
I'm ready.
Subtitles corrected resynced
♪♪by AsifAkheirESL@teachers.org
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org